.nh
.TH PLAYERCTL-GO(1)

.SH NAME
playerctl-go \- control MPRIS media players from the Go port CLI


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBgoplayerctl [--version] [--list-all] [--all-players] [--player NAMES] [--ignore-player NAMES] [--format TEMPLATE] [--follow] [--follow-interval DURATION] COMMAND\fR


.SH DESCRIPTION
The Go port of \fBplayerctl\fR controls media players implementing the MPRIS D-Bus interfaces.


.SH COMMANDS
.IP \(bu 2
\fBplay\fR
.IP \(bu 2
\fBpause\fR
.IP \(bu 2
\fBplay-pause\fR
.IP \(bu 2
\fBplaypause\fR
.IP \(bu 2
\fBnext\fR
.IP \(bu 2
\fBprevious\fR
.IP \(bu 2
\fBstatus\fR
.IP \(bu 2
\fBmetadata\fR
.IP \(bu 2
\fBtui\fR
.IP \(bu 2
\fBdaemon\fR
.IP \(bu 2
\fBloop [status]\fR - Print or set the loop status. Can be "None", "Track", or "Playlist". If setting a new status, it prints the old and new loop status.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBshuffle [on|off|toggle]\fR
.IP \(bu 2
\fBvolume [level]\fR
.IP \(bu 2
\fBposition [offset]\fR
.IP \(bu 2
\fBopen <uri>\fR


.SH OPTIONS
.IP \(bu 2
\fB--player\fR: comma-separated instance list.
.IP \(bu 2
\fB--ignore-player\fR: comma-separated instance ignore list.
.IP \(bu 2
\fB--all-players\fR: target all discovered players.
.IP \(bu 2
\fB--list-all\fR: print discovered player names.
.IP \(bu 2
\fB--format\fR: Go template format string.
.IP \(bu 2
\fB--template-help\fR: print detailed help for format templates and exit.
.IP \(bu 2
\fB--follow\fR: keep polling and print value changes.
.IP \(bu 2
\fB--follow-interval\fR: polling interval (default: 1s).
.IP \(bu 2
\fB--tui-scheme\fR: TUI control scheme (arrow, vim, winamp, emacs).
.IP \(bu 2
\fB--version\fR: print version string.


.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
# list players
goplayerctl --list-all

# query status for one player
goplayerctl --player vlc status

# query metadata for all players with formatted output
goplayerctl --all-players --format '{{ .player }}: {{ default .title "(none)" }}' metadata

# query metadata for a player showing artist, album, and title
goplayerctl --player spotify --format '{{ default .artist "Unknown Artist" }} - {{ default .album "Unknown Album" }} - {{ default .title "Unknown Title" }}' metadata

# follow status changes
goplayerctl --player spotify --follow status
.EE


.SH FORMAT STRINGS
The Go port of \fBplayerctl\fR uses standard Go \fBtext/template\fR syntax for formatting output.

.SH Variables
The following variables are available in the template context:
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\&.player\fR: The name of the player instance.
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\&.status\fR: The playback status (e.g., Playing, Paused, Stopped).
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\&.title\fR: The title of the current track.
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\&.artist\fR: The artist of the current track.
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\&.album\fR: The album of the current track.

.SH Functions
The following custom functions are available:
.IP \(bu 2
\fBlc\fR: Lowercase string.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBuc\fR: Uppercase string.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBdefault <fallback> <value>\fR: Return fallback if value is empty.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBduration <value>\fR: Format duration value.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBmarkup_escape <value>\fR: HTML escape string.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBemoji <status>\fR: Return an emoji for playback status.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBtrunc <max> <value>\fR: Truncate string to max length.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBadd <a> <b>\fR: Add two integers.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBsub <a> <b>\fR: Subtract two integers.


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBREADME.md\fR, \fBcmd/goplayerctl/main.go\fR
